Output from two operational models are used to generate hydrologic inputs for the Salmon Population Model, Calite and CALSIM II. Both models replicate the operations of the Central Valley water system, with an emphasis on major reservoirs and diversions over a period of years. Calite is a simplified version of CALSIM, with fewer system nodes. More information on Calite is available here http://baydeltaoffice.water.ca.gov/modeling/hydrology/CalLite/index.cfm More information on CALSIM II is available here http://baydeltaoffice.water.ca.gov/modeling/hydrology/CalSim/index.cfm

The Callite run used for the Salmon Population Model is from the USBR Sacramento-San Joaquin Rivers Basin Study baseline run. Basin Studies are collaborative studies, cost-shared with non-Federal partners, to evaluate the impacts of climate change and help ensure sustainable water supplies by identifying strategies to address imbalances in water supply and demand. Other runs available in the Basin Study considered future operations under climate change. Calite would be the source of operational hydrology if climate change operations are considered by the SIT. More information on the Basin Studies are available here: https://www.usbr.gov/watersmart/bsp/completed.html

The CALSIM II run is a Reclamation product used to replicate current operations for comparison with proposed adjustments under an ongoing Endangered Species Act consultation with the National Marine Fisheries Service. A current NMFS Biological Opinion concluded that, as proposed, CVP and SWP operations were likely to jeopardize the continued existence of four federally- listed anadromous fish species: Sacramento River winter-run Chinook salmon, Central Valley spring-run Chinook salmon, California Central Valley steelhead, and the Southern distinct population segment of the North American green sturgeon. This CALSIM II run was used as the basis of comparison for other potential operations that could offset impacts to listed species.
